# Integration tests

The other main piece of code generated by `anchor init` is the integration
tests. These tests can be written in typescript (by default) or javascript
(chosen by `-j` tag when calling `anchor init`).

These integration tests will be really useful for iterating on your programs.
They sit at the client level, so you can test your application interactions from
the client edge.

We can run `anchor test` to run our tests.

```
  first-program
Your transaction signature 5ZNC46TAz1cgce1AqZ5ZUcXtjP3zxX9zWD87DFBBfc7pP43V9TU5fVkDedJgPMVdSfEW33Po8eGsVQvEMgTzWZLU
    ✓ Is initialized! (197ms)


  1 passing (200ms)
```

Our tests are passing out of the box!

Let's take a look at `./tests/first-program.ts`

```js
import * as anchor from "@project-serum/anchor";

describe("first-program", () => {
  // Configure the client to use the local cluster.
  anchor.setProvider(anchor.Provider.env());

  it("Is initialized!", async () => {
    // Add your test here.
    const program = anchor.workspace.FirstProgram;
    const tx = await program.rpc.initialize();
    console.log("Your transaction signature", tx);
  });
});
```

First, we import anchor and define a test block. We then set up anchor to use
the local provider.

Anchor has a "workspace" feature which will load in the IDL at runtime and
provide us with tooling to interact with our program. Then, we call
`await program.rpc.initialize();`. This will call our instruction handler that
we defined. Then, we log the transaction signature.

Note that we're not really testing anything here, except that the initialize
transaction succeeds.

The really nice thing about these tests is that it gives us the ability to
create state for our programs and test edge cases. It can be difficult to write
certain test cases manually in the client code. Also, writing tests is
essentially writing the interface to your program for your client code. Except,
now, you get the full benefit of a test suite that can be run in continuous
integration or locally on your machine while developing.

{% hint style="warning" %} `anchor.workspace.FirstProgram` is loaded into the
test environment for us. Changing the name of the program can change this. Be
careful when making changes to the name of your program module and make sure the
tests represent that.

Also, the workspace feature is currently only available within the context of
`anchor test`. Don't use this one in your frontend code. {% endhint %}
